# Adult-Income-Neural-Network

This assignment involoved the use of the adult income dataset, https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/2/adult. 
The goal was to create a neural network to predict whether someone earns more or less than $50k. 
The dataset itself was messy consisting of null values and variables that provided little value in solving the classification problem. 
To deal with this we used an imputer to impute all the missing values of the numeric variables with the median of that variable, as well as imputing any missing values in the categorical variables with 'Other' to ensure that the model had as much data as possible for the training stage to try to ensure the highest model performance. 
We used a chi-squared test to determine the most important features with regards to the target variable which is the income variable. From this we dropped the fnlwgt, capital_loss and native country variables as they had very little predictive value. We also used feature engineering to alter some of the existing variables in an attempt to improve model performance. From here we created embeddings to transform the categorical variables for use in the neural network using Hyperband to both determine the size of the embeddings and the architecture of the Neural Network. 
Due to the large class imbalance that is present in the dataset, we decided to use SMOTE to try to syntesize values for the > $50k minority class in an attempt to balance the dataset and improve the performance of the model by providing it with more training, validation and test data. 
The final results of the model were promising as the model achieved an overall accuracy of 82% and recall of 84% suggetsing that the model performed well and was able to accurately predict the income of an individual. The minority > $50k class also achieved an impressive recall of 79% on the test data suggesting that even with the class imbalance the model was still able to largely predict all cases of an individual earning > $50k
